Edited and added new sections to the quickstart tutorial (#2216)
ManimCommunity/manim: docs/source/tutorials/quickstart.rst

Quickstart
==========

.. note::
 Before proceeding, install manim and make sure it's running properly by
 following the steps in :doc:`../installation`. For
 information on using manim with Jupyterlab or Jupyter notebook, go to the

>  :meth:``%%manim`` IPython magic command documentation <manim.utils.ipython_magic.ManimMagic.manim>`.

Author: Thank you for the suggestion, I put in something similar (with a few kerfluffles).

Quickstart
==========

.. note::
 Before proceeding, install manim and make sure it's running properly by
 following the steps in :doc:`../installation`. For
 information on using manim with Jupyterlab or Jupyter notebook, go to the
 documentation for the
 :meth:`IPython magic command <manim.utils.ipython_magic.ManimMagic.manim>`,
 ``%%manim``.

Overview
*************************************************

This quickstart guide will lead you through creating a sample project using manim: an animation
engine for precise programmatic animations.

First, you will use a command line
interface to create a ``Scene``, the class through which manim generates videos.
In the ``Scene`` you will animate a circle. Then you will add another ``Scene`` showing
a square transforming into a circle. This will be your introduction to manim's animation ability.

> Afterwards, you will position multiple manim objects (mobjects). Finally, you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Afterwards, you will position multiple mathematical objects (mobjects). Finally, you
```
_Technically_, I think `Mobject` stands for mathematical object.

Author: Noted. Is "mobject" supposed to be capitalized? Looking at other docs, it seems like it's mobject when talking about them in aggregate and then `Mobject` when talking about the class? I saw that you suggested the capital M a few times later on in your comments but didn't in others so I wanted some clarification there.

Reviewer: I think it should be `Mobject`, but since there isn't a style guide yet I think you can just use what you prefer. It'll hopefully eventually get standardized.

> will learn the syntax of ``.animate``, a powerful feature that displays how
> mobjects change when you modify them with methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will learn the syntax of ``.animate``, a powerful feature that animates
Mobjects' transformations when you modify them with methods.
```

Reviewer: Could probably still be worded a little better.

Author: How about removing the part about transformations (it's explained in the portion below anyway) and for the overview go with something like

> Finally, you will learn the ``.animate`` syntax, a powerful feature that animates the methods you use to modify Mobjects.

Reviewer: That sounds good to me!

Starting a new project
*************************************************

Start by creating a new folder. For the purposes of this guide, name the folder ``project``:

.. code-block:: bash

   project/

This folder is the root folder for your project. It contains all the files that manim needs to function,
as well as any output that your project produces.

Animating a circle
*************************************************

> 1. Create a new file in your project folder named ``scene.py``.

Reviewer: From experience with helping people on the Discord server, it seems like many new users are completely new to programming and need help with this step. Perhaps you can expand this with a little more detail, like mentioning that it's created with a code editor?

Author: When I was following along the quickstart guide myself, I was actually able to create and edit the requisite files using a simple text editor (Notepad). Would it still be worth noting?

Reviewer: Yeah, I think so.

.. code-block:: bash

   project/
   └─scene.py

2. Copy the following code into ``scene.py``:

.. code-block:: python

   from manim import *

   class CreateCircle(Scene):
       def construct(self):
           circle = Circle()  # create a circle
           circle.set_fill(PINK, opacity=0.5)  # set the color and transparency
           self.play(Create(circle))  # show the circle on screen

> 3. Open the command line, navigate to your project folder, and execute

Reviewer: Again, many new users would struggle at this step.

Author: I could expand on getting to the command line for Windows, but I don't own a mac or have Linux running on my computer, so I wouldn't be able to cover potential differences between operating systems. What would you recommend here?

Reviewer: Hmm, I think you can leave it for now. Someone should revisit this in the future though.

           circle.set_fill(PINK, opacity=0.5)  # set the color and transparency
           self.play(Create(circle))     # show the circle on screen

If you see a smooth animation of a pink circle being drawn, congratulations!
You just wrote your first manim scene from scratch.

If you get an error
message instead, you do not see a video, or if the video output does not
look like the preceding animation, it is likely that manim has not been
installed correctly. Please refer to the :doc:`../installation/troubleshooting`
page for more information.

***********
Explanation
***********

Let's go over the script you just executed line by line to see how manim was
able to draw the circle.

The first line imports all of the contents of the library:

.. code-block:: python

   from manim import *

This is the recommended way of using manim, as a single script often uses
multiple names from the manim namespace. In your script, you imported and used
``Scene``, ``Circle``, ``PINK`` and ``Create``.

Now let's look at the next two lines:

.. code-block:: python

   class CreateCircle(Scene):
       def construct(self):
           ...

> Most of the time, the code for scripting an animation with manim goes inside

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the time, the code for scripting an animation is entirely contained within the
```

> the :meth:`~.Scene.construct` method of a class, which derives from :class:`.Scene`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the :meth:`~.Scene.construct` method of a :class:`.Scene` class.
```

Inside :meth:`~.Scene.construct`, you can create objects, display them on screen, and animate them.

> The next two lines create a circle, and set its color and opacity:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next two lines create a circle and set its color and opacity:
```
I feel the comma is a little awkward, not sure though.

.. code-block:: python

           circle = Circle()  # create a circle
           circle.set_fill(PINK, opacity=0.5)  # set the color and transparency

Finally, the last line uses the animation :class:`.Create` to display the
circle on your screen:

.. code-block:: python

           self.play(Create(circle))  # show the circle on screen

.. tip:: All animations must reside within the :meth:`~.Scene.construct` method of a
         class derived from :class:`.Scene`.  Other code, such as auxiliary
         or mathematical functions, may reside outside the class.

Transforming a square into a circle

> *************************************************

Reviewer: Minor point, but are all these asterisks needed? It just has to be the same length as the section title right?

Author: To be honest, I didn't realize that was the reason the asterisk breaks were differing lengths so I just copied from the longest one and went with it. Fixed.

With our circle animation complete, let's move on to something a little more complicated.

> 1. Open ``scene.py``, and add the following code snippet below the ``CreateCircle`` method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open ``scene.py``, and add the following code snippet below the ``CreateCircle`` class:
```

           self.play(Transform(square, circle))  # interpolate the square into the circle
           self.play(FadeOut(square))  # fade out animation

> 2. Render ``SquareToCircle`` using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Render ``SquareToCircle`` by running the following command in the command line:
```

.. code-block:: bash

   manim -pql scene.py SquareToCircle

> The following animation displays:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following animation should be rendered:
```

Author: Would

> The following animation will render:

be sufficient? I feel that "should be" is less confident than "will" and a guide shouldn't be written in maybes.

           self.play(Transform(square, circle))  # interpolate the square into the circle
           self.play(FadeOut(square))  # fade out animation

This example shows one of the primary features of manim: the ability to
implement complicated and mathematically intensive animations (such as cleanly

> interpolating between two geometric shapes) in just a few lines of code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interpolating between two geometric shapes) with just a few lines of code.
```

Positioning manim objects
*************************************************

> Next, an introduction on how to position manim objects, or mobjects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, let's quickly go over some basic techniques of positioning Mobjects.
```

Author: how about

> Next, let's go over some basic techniques for positioning ``Mobject``s.

Reviewer: LGTM

1. Open ``scene.py``, and add the following code snippet below the ``SquareToCircle`` method:

.. code-block:: python

   class SquareAndCircle(Scene):
       def construct(self):
           circle = Circle()  # create a circle
           circle.set_fill(PINK, opacity=0.5)  # set the color and transparency

           square = Square()  # create a square
           square.set_fill(BLUE, opacity=0.5)  # set the color and transparency

           square.next_to(circle, RIGHT, buff=0.5)  # set the position
           self.play(Create(circle), Create(square))  # show the shapes on screen

2. Render ``SquareAndCircle`` using the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   manim -pql scene.py SquareAndCircle

> The following animation displays:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following animation should be rendered:
```

.. manim:: SquareAndCircle2
   :hide_source:

   class SquareAndCircle2(Scene):
       def construct(self):
           circle = Circle()  # create a circle
           circle.set_fill(PINK, opacity=0.5)  # set the color and transparency

           square = Square() # create a square
           square.set_fill(BLUE, opacity=0.5) #set the color and transparency

           square.next_to(circle, RIGHT, buff=0.5) # set the position
           self.play(Create(circle), Create(square))  # show the shapes on screen

> ``next_to`` is a mobject method for positioning mobjects. Its first argument,
> ``circle``, specified the pink circle as the square's reference point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``next_to`` is a mobject method for positioning mobjects. We first specified
the pink circle as the square's reference point by passing ``circle`` as the method's first argument.
```

> The second argument, ``RIGHT``, positioned the square to the right of the circle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second argument is used to specify the direction the Mobject is placed relative to the reference point.
In this case, we've set the direction to ``RIGHT``, telling manim to position the square to the right of the circle.
```

Finally, ``buff=0.5`` applied a small distance buffer between the two objects.

Try changing ``RIGHT`` to ``LEFT``, ``UP``, or ``DOWN`` instead, and see how that changes the position of the square.

Using positioning methods, you can render a scene with multiple mobjects,
setting their locations in the scene using coordinates or positioning them
relative to each other.

For more information on ``next_to`` and other positioning methods, check out the
list of :class:`.Mobject` methods in our reference manual.

Using ``.animate`` syntax to animate methods
*************************************************

The final lesson in this tutorial is using ``.animate``, a mobject method which
animates changes you make to a mobject. When you prepend ``.animate`` to any
method call that modifies a mobject, the method becomes an animation which
can be played using ``self.play``. Let's return to ``SquareToCircle`` to see the
differences between using methods when creating a mobject,
and animating those method calls with ``.animate``.

> 1. Open ``scene.py``, and add the following code snippet below the ``SquareAndCircle`` method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open ``scene.py``, and add the following code snippet below the ``SquareAndCircle`` class:
```

.. code-block:: python

   class AnimatedSquareToCircle(Scene):
       def construct(self):
           circle = Circle()  # create a circle
           square = Square()  # create a square

           self.play(Create(square))  # show the shapes on screen
           self.play(square.animate.rotate(PI / 4))  # rotate the square
           self.play(
               ReplacementTransform(square, circle)
           )  # transform the square into a circle
           self.play(
               circle.animate.set_fill(PINK, opacity=0.5)
           )  # color the circle on screen

2. Render ``AnimatedSquareToCircle`` using the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   manim -pql scene.py AnimatedSquareToCircle

> The following animation displays:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following animation should be rendered:
```

.. manim:: AnimatedSquareToCircle2
   :hide_source:

   class AnimatedSquareToCircle2(Scene):
       def construct(self):
           circle = Circle()  # create a circle
           square = Square()  # create a square

           self.play(Create(square))  # show the shapes on screen
           self.play(square.animate.rotate(PI / 4))  # rotate the square
           self.play(ReplacementTransform(square, circle))  # transform the square into a circle
           self.play(circle.animate.set_fill(PINK, opacity=0.5))  # color the circle on screen

The first ``self.play`` creates the square. The second animates rotating it 45 degrees.
The third transforms the square into a circle, and the last colors the circle pink.
Although the end result is the same as that of ``SquareToCircle``, ``.animate`` shows

> ``rotate`` and ``set_fill`` applying to the mobject dynamically, instead of creating them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``rotate`` and ``set_fill`` being applied to the Mobject dynamically, instead of creating them
```

with the changes already applied.

Try other methods, like ``flip`` or ``shift``, and see what happens.

Note that ``.animate`` transforms the mobject, regardless of the mobject method you use.
For example, ``rotate`` doesn't actually rotate the square. Instead, manim takes the starting state
(the square) and the ending state (the square, rotated 45 degrees), and interpolates

> the two states. That is, instead of rotating the square, it transforms the square into another, rotated square.

Reviewer: Maybe add a short explanation of how this might result in weird results for large angles, and to use `Rotate` instead for proper rotation, similar to how https://try.manim.community/ explains it.

Author: I'm adding two steps that use ``DifferentRotations`` from the link you provided to talk about the quirks of ``.animate``, though it will probably need a review to make sure I got it right.

************
You're done!
************

With a working installation of manim and this sample project under your belt,

> you're ready to start creating animations of your own.  For more
> under the hood at what manim is doing when rendering the ``SquareToCircle``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you're ready to start creating animations of your own.  To learn
more about what Manim is doing under the hood
```

> scene, go to the next tutorial :doc:`a_deeper_look`.  For an extensive review of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
go to the next tutorial :doc:`a_deeper_look`.  For an overview of
```

manim's features, as well as its configuration and other settings, go to the

> other :doc:`../tutorials`.  For a list of all available features, go to the
> :doc:`../reference` page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
other :doc:`../tutorials`.  For a list of all available features, go to the
:doc:`../reference` page.
```
```suggestion
other :doc:`../tutorials`.  A list of all available features is available at the
:doc:`../reference` page.
```

Author: How about

> For a list of all available features, refer to the :doc:`../reference` page.

Reviewer: LGTM

           square.next_to(circle, RIGHT, buff=0.5) # set the position
           self.play(Create(circle), Create(square))  # show the shapes on screen

``next_to`` is a mobject method for positioning mobjects. We first specified
the pink circle as the square's reference point by passing ``circle`` as the method's first argument.
The second argument is used to specify the direction the Mobject is placed relative to the reference point.
In this case, we've set the direction to ``RIGHT``, telling manim to position the square to the right of the circle.
Finally, ``buff=0.5`` applied a small distance buffer between the two objects.

Try changing ``RIGHT`` to ``LEFT``, ``UP``, or ``DOWN`` instead, and see how that changes the position of the square.

Using positioning methods, you can render a scene with multiple mobjects,
setting their locations in the scene using coordinates or positioning them
relative to each other.

For more information on ``next_to`` and other positioning methods, check out the
list of :class:`.Mobject` methods in our reference manual.

Using ``.animate`` syntax to animate methods
*************************************************

> The final lesson in this tutorial is using ``.animate``, a mobject method which

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The final lesson in this tutorial is using ``.animate``, a method which
```

Author: Is ``.animate`` not a ``Mobject`` method? It seems to modify methods that apply to ``Mobject``s but I don't know for certain what's going on. 

Regardless, I don't think the comma is correct.

Reviewer: Yea, I think your wording is fine.

           self.play(Transform(square, circle))  # interpolate the square into the circle
           self.play(FadeOut(square))  # fade out animation

This example shows one of the primary features of Manim: the ability to
implement complicated and mathematically intensive animations (such as cleanly
interpolating between two geometric shapes) with just a few lines of code.

Positioning ``Mobject``s

> *************************************************

Reviewer: Same as above.

Author: Same as above.

           square.next_to(circle, RIGHT, buff=0.5) # set the position
           self.play(Create(circle), Create(square))  # show the shapes on screen

``next_to`` is a ``Mobject`` method for positioning ``Mobject``s.

We first specified
the pink circle as the square's reference point by passing ``circle`` as the method's first argument.
The second argument is used to specify the direction the ``Mobject`` is placed relative to the reference point.
In this case, we set the direction to ``RIGHT``, telling Manim to position the square to the right of the circle.
Finally, ``buff=0.5`` applied a small distance buffer between the two objects.

Try changing ``RIGHT`` to ``LEFT``, ``UP``, or ``DOWN`` instead, and see how that changes the position of the square.

Using positioning methods, you can render a scene with multiple ``Mobject``s,
setting their locations in the scene using coordinates or positioning them
relative to each other.

For more information on ``next_to`` and other positioning methods, check out the
list of :class:`.Mobject` methods in our reference manual.

Using ``.animate`` syntax to animate methods

> *************************************************

Reviewer: Same as above.

Author: Same as above.
